(upbeat music)
- What episode is this Greg?
- Episode 40.
- Big 4-0.
- Lordy Lordy, look who's 40.
- God you said it, I was gonna say it.
- Yeah.
- They still have those billboards every once in a while.
You'll come across one.
And it's like the picture of the person whose birthday it is
and like black balloons, like they're dead.
- I remember my mom's,
'cause my grandpa got this pretty good troll
and he had a box in this bird feeder
that was in the front yard that said Lordy Lordy,
Mary's 40, my mom's named Mary,
but it was like full of like bricks.
So it was like super heavy,
like make you feel even older.
He was good at trolling and shit like that.
- Episode 40 and it's our 2022 wrap up.
- Yeah.
- Couple days into 2023.
- For me this was probably the longest year of my life.
I genuinely like think back of like what I was doing
a year ago.
- Yeah.
- I'm like not even that person.
- I think same.
- That might just be psychological
'cause I think it was probably still 365 days.
- No, no, I counted.
It was something like 7,000 days.
I could be off here or there.
- Yeah.
This one there was a lot of like upside,
but there was hell of a lot of challenges
never been sick that many times in my life.
Like, goddamn, especially December was kind of a brutal
tour de force.
Some good high notes like, but man, fucking brutal year.
- Mine's a blur.
It really is.
I feel like this did go by pretty quickly for me.
As far as music shit goes,
it was a very, I want to say productive year.
It was a year of growth.
- Same year.
Felt a lot of inspiration this year
to work on shit and not just buy and sell modules
or cycle them through my way.
- Yeah.
- Which I did my fair share of for sure, but.
- We both did.
- Yeah.
- But I feel like by the end of the year now,
I've reached a good balance and being very productive
with what I'm trying to do in the studio.
So yeah, wasn't all for not.
- Yeah, realized as I was kind of reviewing today,
like some of the changes in the past year,
I was like, wow, you changed a lot of shit
and cycled it out.
Went back to like where I was a little bit before.
And I'm not mad at any of it.
They were all pretty good choices, but I don't know.
I don't think it's going to be this volatile next year for me.
That's like one of my personal predictions I'll make.
- Absolutely.
- I'm really happy with this shit.
I have it on like a money's got to go elsewhere.
I need like new stoves, you know,
tons of shit that I should get
instead of like another sampler or something like that.
- Yeah, I started to have that same revelation
a few months back and my purchases definitely started
to go down.
And yeah, it's going to be even more of that in 2023,
I think.
I'm going to have to sink some money into house stuff.
- Mm-hmm.
- Yeah, I don't know.
And to be honest, there's just not a whole lot
that's inspiring me to open my wallet right now.
- Same here.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, it's like.
- And the things that I do want are either too damn expensive
or too hard to get a lot of times lately.
So that actually ties in with our prediction
from last year around this time when we did our wrap up.
So did you go back and listen to it and listen to it?
- I listened to the parts, yeah.
- And it was still kind of fresh in my head too
'cause the things that we were talking about,
we've talked about a couple of times throughout the year also.
- Hybrid systems.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Year of the hybrid was our big prediction.
- Mm-hmm.
- We were talking about how some manufacturers
would probably go under, some big ones and they did.
We were talking about how things would become hard
to get inexpensive and that's exactly what has been happening.
And we touched on all that again
in our modular dystopia episode.
- Yep.
- Not that long ago.
So, 'cause we don't need to beat that point
into the ground or anything,
but there's definitely nothing on the horizon
that suggests that's going to change.
- Anytime soon for 2023, so it's gonna be more,
a lot more of that.
- I don't wanna make this prediction,
but I think it'll get worse again.
I think a lot of people are gonna ship doing this part time.
- Hope that's not the case,
but I don't see that letting up.
- Yeah.
- So I've got a twist on this.
- Yeah. - One of my predictions was,
and this is only because of watching them on Instagram
and getting their emails and basically watching them
sort of struggle for a while,
and then this seems to be like right now
on the cusp of them solving all the problems
they've been having for a couple of years now
and finally delivering, and that's LZX.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Truth.
- They ended the one line, then that became unobtainium,
and then a couple of the new things actually made it out.
A lot of stuff that was supposed to come out
a little while ago, but then there were struggles
for various reasons.
Basically, the new lineup looks like
it's on the cusp of coming out.
- Yeah.
- You know, secondary market for LZX stuff
is astronomical now.
It's really out of control,
and this will hopefully ease that
by having the TBC2 coming out, Chromalodeon.
- Chromalodeon. - Chromalodeon.
- Chromalodeon, thank you.
Chromalodeon, wow.
- Yeah, isn't that some band?
- It is a band from Philly in the early 2000s.
Definitely not what I meant.
They were good, they were good.
I mean, if they're listening.
- I think that's what you meant.
- Yeah.
- So to me, that's the one bright spot in all of this
is a company that's stuck with it
and is on the cusp of putting all this stuff
into this market and making a modular video synthesis,
at least a little feasible again.
- Yeah, like if you pre-ordered a Chromalodeon,
you've probably been waiting two years for one.
If you've still hung in there,
they had to make a new line of modules
so they could keep the company floating
while they were waiting to produce TBC2
and Chromalagden and the new line of shit.
But it sounds like they're about to ship TBC2,
which is huge, and they're saying Chromalagden
is gonna be like spring vinyl,
which is also big for them.
- I'm very excited about TBC2 because I pre-ordered that
like well over a year ago.
It's really a very fundamental,
fundamentally important part of the system
that is going to make this a viable option
for a lot of people that have been interested in videos,
since stuff, but have been keeping it in the box
just because that was really the only alternative.
So I'm putting a twist on this doom and gloom
and saying there's at least a sparkle of hope
on the video synth front.
- Yeah, yeah.
- People are getting creative.
Like, you know, Ross, we always usually mention Ross
in an episodes and Ross got some new plans
to be able to produce some stuff,
has shifted his strategy a little bit.
Seems interesting.
Hopefully people will keep being creative,
making shit, but.
- I mean, we should have Russ on sometime.
I know we've said that in the past,
but you know, talking about the designs that he has
and what he wants to do,
and also like the struggles that he's gone through,
keeping his line afloat.
- That's just kind of sparked an idea for me,
and I don't know if we could do like some episodes
where it's like, "Sis X, Dumpster, and Friends,"
and we could have maybe more than one person on
to like kind of spread it out a little.
- Like crossfire.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Like where we get like a Republican and a Democrat on,
and like, we're the moderators,
but they're like fighting and like,
it gets like heated and they're throwing shoes at each other.
- I'm sold. - Yeah.
- I don't know how to figure out
who's gonna be the most like likely to start a fight,
but we'll figure it out.
We'll have a questionnaire.
- It'll become apparent. - Yeah.
(both laughing)
- I like that idea though, yeah.
- We'll see where the year takes us.
- Patreons, let us know what you think of this idea.
- Yeah, 'cause I know you've mentioned this before
and have kind of slowed a little more before Greg and I,
but I'm also in the position where I don't think
I'm gonna have like a ton of new things to review next year.
So I'm kind of thinking about like,
but I don't know, I've picked up some things
that are like, again, like I got another ornament in crime,
I'm using it differently and like some like random kits
and like stuff like that.
So I might have some other shit to talk about.
- With the gnarled horse throat tape done and out
and my ten inch done and out,
I've got a clean slate right now.
One of my personal predictions is very similar,
maybe not getting a lot of new stuff,
but like trying new techniques, new things.
- Yeah. - Taking the stuff
that I have and being like, all right,
don't just patch this like you normally do
'cause there's a couple of routes that I go
because I know they work, don't do that.
Do something different.
Like when I feel myself, I'm kind of going down the same path
or the well that I go to all the time,
maybe stop and try something different.
So like McGordin said, change the process
and you change the outcome.
Maybe I'll make music that people actually want to hear
that way.
- But like a new old thing for me,
like I used to kind of hate these
'cause I always had Beringer ones,
but I just got a patch bay again recently
because I got this Octa track and follow up on that last,
yeah, the Octa track's pretty crucial for me now,
it's not leaving, it's just does its live set thing
and that's it.
But I have it set up at home and I'm like,
oh, I can't really use this as well.
And like I have these hardware effects,
I'm not using my mixer anymore
and I needed to be able to patch effects.
And so I saw a black line audio mix like patch bays now
and I'm like, oh, they'll probably do a good job of it.
The Beringer ones, I had one of those like card ones
and I always had like connection issues
and I was like for a long time like fuck patch bays.
I don't wanna deal with noise issues, make it simple.
But I got this one and I'm actually gonna,
on the drive home I will pick up the patch cables
that I needed for like balanced patch cables,
but I'm pretty excited to like integrate that in again.
Like it's been spurring some new ideas in my mind.
- I had a patch bay for a really long time,
but it was the noise and the crinkling and just,
that's what kills me.
It was another one that had the cards
which were really configurable.
I like that aspect of it, but I was like,
I'd rather just have one that does have like no bells
and whistles.
This is a very simple device.
- Yeah.
- Make it as simple as possible,
but make it absolutely fucking perfect.
- I think that's this black line audio one,
which was like 200 bucks, which is pretty fair price.
Like if you're gonna pay that for like firm and patch banks
or like the 150 or something like that,
but it just has a button on the back to switch
from normal and half normal.
And it's like, oh, okay, this is way better.
All that like leads are like gold plated.
It's like, oh, this is built like really well.
I bet it will not sound like shit.
'Cause the Beringer ones, they were a pain in the ass.
I mean, I hated them.
- I have a patch base sitting in my closet
that I never even used.
- Oh yeah?
- Is it a Beringer one?
- No, it's either the Furman or a Samson.
- Did you get that Samson for me?
- No, I got it from Sweetwater I think.
And then I got monthly calls asking about,
oh, I like my patch bay and I'm like,
bro, I haven't even patched it up.
Like I had it when I had more outboard effects.
Now I don't, like most of my effects are modular based.
So it's like I haven't needed the patch bay,
but I should probably sell it honestly.
- Yeah, 'cause I was talking about it a couple months back
and then I was talking to Ross about it somehow.
And Russ was like, oh yeah, patch mes are great.
He's like, mine just kind of makes like some noise sometimes.
And I was immediately like, fuck those things.
But past couple weeks, I was like,
oh, let me try this again.
So I mean, I guess this could segue into,
we've got a bunch of categories for best or most of
and I wanted to thank our Patreons,
especially in the last minute request over the last day or two,
giving us some suggestions for categories for us to review
or talk about, this is probably isn't the most exciting
one to start with.
Probably this is a segue, talking about old and new.
Someone asked for the best resurrection
of an old piece of gear.
And I wanted to point out for me,
the DSI Evolver is heavily back in the mix.
- Really? - Yeah.
- I remember you were just kind of
growing out of love with that thing recently.
Now you're back in?
- Absolutely. - Rebound.
- Yes, it was, and it was like dusty.
Like it was seriously like kind of out of the way
and hadn't been used in a while.
- Same one I told you right.
- It is the one from like--
- It's like a dedicated guitar.
- Yeah.
I'm playing a live set in a couple of weeks
and the Deluge has CV out, but also MIDI out in there.
Super channels and all those things.
Man, it'd be nice if I, in addition to just having
the small modular setup, I had like a nice little sound
module and I started looking around.
I was like, ah, that's cool, but the Evolver did that better.
Oh, that one's nice, but the way they did that
and the Evolver better, and I brought it back out
and like even some of like the old patches
like I had saved, I'm like, oh, this still sounds good.
- Oh yeah.
- So I don't really remember why it fell out of love
with it.
I eventually figure out what it was,
why we would keep breaking up, but as of right now,
yeah, very excited to dust that off,
bring it back into the mix.
- I was looking at those kind of recently.
- There was someone who posted the mono key version
on Muff's just the other day and I was like,
fuck, that was like my dream since three years.
- Look used to have one.
- Really?
- Yeah.
- I always wanted one.
They were like so hard to find.
And seeing that pop-up, I was like,
I really don't need that, but I fucking wanted like--
- That's the one to get kind of.
- Yeah, it's got everything laid out.
Like that was my only, well, my biggest issue with
the evolve and why I sold it in first,
but I didn't like the little grid matrix set up
on the little module version, you know, sounded great.
I love the sound of it.
I just didn't like the interface.
- Yeah.
- The keyboard version seems to solve a lot of that.
- Yeah, so much is surfaced on that, yeah.
So that was getting the ball rolling.
- Yeah.
- That's my best resurrection.
We don't have to stick on this category.
I just wanted to seem like we were talking about old things.
- I'll go to the next, I guess.
I'm like knee deep back into Propellerhead's reason again.
- Yeah, I'm opening it.
I'm just using the reason rack version of it,
which is really all I'm interested in
'cause I don't like the DAW aspects
that they've added to reason over the years.
Kind of ruined the program for me.
I like the fact now that you can open it as a VST
and it's just like the rack.
So I've been using it like multiple instances of it
within VCV rack and then routing my reason patches
through VCV out my expert sleepers ES9 into my modular
for like further processing.
And it's just weird to me 'cause reason,
especially like rebirth and things like that,
like those were my first tools that I started playing with
back in like 2000.
- Definitely, same.
It's weird to be back in reason and not much has changed.
- You noted there's some new instruments,
but it's like felt like riding a bike to me.
Like yeah, I used to spend hours upon fucking hours
and reasons.
So like getting back in there and feeling comfortable with it
and like actually being productive with it,
I was like, it's kind of strange
that I've gone full circle in some degrees with it
'cause like I hadn't touched it in years, you know?
- I can't even imagine too because like similar
like me at the time having no idea what to do.
Like this was entirely like the alchemy
of twisting the opposite thing would happen.
And the idea of like actually having an intent
versus just twisting the opposite thing would happen.
- Yeah, I mean like my experience with reason is what
led me to like the modular path in the first place.
And the only reason why I understood how to work
on certain sense, you know what I mean?
'Cause like, you know, you had that familiarity
with the hardware based interfaces of reason stuff
and you know, mixing consoles and all that shit.
So like yeah, diving back into that now
with even more knowledge, you know, it's interesting.
But for most part, it's still just me fucking around.
- Right.
- Like it's the new stuff that they've added to it
very recently, I guess was oddly timed.
Like I wanted to start getting back into it
and at the same time they've released like
some really interesting shit for it.
Like the algorithm synth, which is just like
it's a modular FM synth.
You can add modules to it.
There's wave table modules, filters.
It has like generative functions and like all this shit.
Something that reason should have had a long time ago.
- Yeah, sure.
- And glad to finally see that they're innovating
with it a little bit.
But yeah, so yeah, dipping back into time
and playing with software that I, you know,
was very into 20 years ago now in a modern context
because that would be my resurrection.
- Nice.
- It's a good one.
- For me, not a surprise, but Octatrack Mark II.
Especially after the last review, like I've got the levels
kind of dialed in now.
Like it sounds good.
It was just, I couldn't have done that last live set
in the same way without it.
And that was the live set since I've started
that I felt the best about while playing it and after.
And it's just perfect for live.
I don't do anything crazy with the Octatrack.
I don't even really give too much of a shit
about sampling anymore.
But as far as its ability to loop and affect
two pieces of equipment in live, like it was just,
it was so much fun because of the Octatrack.
And I was able to like do so much more.
All that muscle memory was there looping was seamless
and worked perfectly live.
It was just like fucking sick.
So that'll never, now I won't sell that again
as long as I'm playing like live sets basically.
And I don't plan to stop because there was even,
the one for Andy thought I wasn't like super psyched
on that live set.
I thought it was like kind of a secret effort.
I didn't represent myself very well
with that last one that collision like got it.
That was the most fun I've ever had playing live.
- Well, someone who saw both of them,
they were both great.
Yeah, they dug them both.
- Yeah, that's my resurrection.
So what about one of the next ones I think
is a favorite sound source.
- So I'll start.
- Yeah, start too.
- I'm gonna start this up.
So for me in 2022, it was the the Bucla 258T,
or the Tiptop 258T Bucla oscillator.
- Killer.
- I was interested in it.
We talked about it.
We talked about it in some of the stuff
we talked about in the past.
So we don't have to deep dive too much into it.
I was interested in it.
I was like, "Let me give this a shot."
Absolutely love it.
I think they nailed it.
I think it's more interesting than it has any rate to be.
- Yeah.
And yeah, two enthusiastic stereo output thumbs up.
- Stereo?
- Well, it has two, it's not like actual stereo,
but those malts are brilliant that it lends itself to.
Like a lot of different patching opportunities.
Highly worry, especially for the price,
it's like one of the best oscillators out there.
Analog for sure.
It's just fucking incredible.
- Great, your look, what is the look you're giving us?
- Because my answer is kind of not as sexy,
but it's an answer I'm probably gonna give
in multiple categories, but mutable plates.
- Oh yeah.
- With the orange mode.
- So that was the thing is,
I didn't put that in this category
'cause it's going to show up in another category
and I didn't want to say plats over and over again.
- I'm gonna be saying plats over and over again.
- All right, that's fair.
- Plats, plats.
- I think it's plats.
Plats, plates.
- Yeah, I'm in love with that orange mode.
- Oh yeah, that's incredible.
- Yeah, it's, I know it's squeezing it in
at the end of the year.
That was a nice end of year surprise,
but I can tell you right now I've enjoyed playing
with that way more than like any other oscillator
than I have throughout the year.
- Yeah, like most of my oscillator experiments
this year were software based
and they're all kind of boring.
And that was mainly intentional.
I spent the year avoiding complex oscillators.
I was trying to do more with simple sources.
- Yeah.
- I was trying to focus more on the processing and stuff
and I feel like plates has always been a good Swiss army knife
of simple, not super simple, but like,
you know, simpler Swiss army knife oscillator stuff,
you know, duties.
And now the orange mode just breathes
like a whole new type of vibe into it
that I'm really digging, all the FM stuff.
- Yeah, the FM is especially incredible on that.
- So the timing of it was perfect
'cause again, I was like sort of finished a bunch of things
and was like with an eye towards performing live again
and A, plats is in my live setup.
So that's opening up, it is a synth source,
but also I was like, I always want more gabber kicks.
I always want to make more gabber kicks.
That plus grit plus filter of crows
was like two weekends in a row,
just all I did over and over again
was just make gabber kicks over and over again.
It was going from several hundred thousand gabber kicks
to two million gabber kicks.
It was, yeah.
- I had a second runner up.
- Oh.
- I got to give the mod back Trinity some love.
It's probably my favorite drum module
I've played with in quite a minute.
- Damn, it was wonderful how you were getting along with it.
- I'm liking it.
I'm liking it a lot, very versatile.
- The only major complaint I have with it so far is that
you have three drums, but you're sharing the same knobs.
You know what I mean?
- Right.
- I've already accidentally not clicked
the correct drum sound and started messing with knobs
and then messed up what I had going on on the kick
while trying to fine tune the snare.
Yeah.
I don't see how they could easily get around it,
'cause it's a lot of stuff crammed into a decently small-sized
module, you know, like to have each drum,
its own knobs, it would be a huge module.
So, I understand why they didn't go that route,
but it does make it a bit tricky.
But sound wise, yeah, I'm loving it so far.
So yeah, shout out in second place for Trinity.
- Mine's a two-parter.
I actually had four things to start with,
'cause I got some sound sources I really like.
But there's a non-modular modular and I got,
I went big and got the most expensive
piece of music equipment I've ever got
and got the Oberheim OB6 desktop, which is a beast.
- Dude, it's like, when I sat down to use it,
I was like, "Oh, this is what an extremely good
quality synthesizer sounds like."
And it's just like designed well and it gave me like,
I was looking at Evolvers 'cause it like got me back.
I'm like, "I've been ignoring like Dave Smith
and sequential stuff."
'Cause it's like the way the filter works
with the envelopes and the way the oscillators sound,
it's like the perfect compliment to the virus tie.
And you can like turn the rez up all the way on the filter
and it will never break up at all.
It's just like golden filter and like,
seething the mode or like modulating the mode
of the filter and being able to sweep through that.
It's like, it's one of those things where,
oh, be patching it and I would be fucking yelling.
Like I'm just like screaming in the house like,
holy shit.
So that was like well worth it.
- Yeah.
I'm jealous.
- Oh dude, it's like, if you like,
I convinced Luke to go get one surprise,
but it's like one of those things,
if you like synthesizers and you sit down
and you don't like it, well, if you sit down
and don't like you don't like synthesizers probably.
Like it's just kind of undeniably good.
It's very classic and you can make like John Carpenter
fucking sounds all day kind of or like,
what to me in my ears close enough
like a profit five, but they killed it too.
And like it's just perfectly nice to use.
It didn't like getting ripped off on the first one,
which was on Amazon and it turned out
and I didn't even realize this.
Luke was the one who was like,
oh shit, here's one for like 1900.
I'm like, that's like 600 bucks off.
Ooh, it's on prime.
Like I'm gonna buy this and it was like super late at night.
I realized the next morning,
the sellers from the Ukraine and I was like,
hmm, not like sketched by that, but I'm like,
okay, they've got some sales.
And then I got really worried like a couple hours after
when they shut their entire store down
and all the products were gone.
Okay.
And I was like, ooh.
So it was a scam.
It was absolutely a scam.
I was trying to contact the person
and they were like trolling me basically.
And then I was like, ooh fuck.
And then the next day I saw like six other feedbacks,
everybody got scammed.
And I think I was the end of the scam
'cause I was like the last high dollar thing.
And they were like, ooh, gonna shut it down now.
- How the hell is shit like that get on the Amazon?
- The nice thing is like good thing to know.
If you do that for anything under 2,500 bucks Amazon,
we'll cover you.
Within a week I pretty much had my money back
but you've got to wait to like prove like,
oh they could still ship it.
And I'm like, dude, they're like,
they shut their store down.
Like they're gone.
So that worked out and I ended up like
a couple days through that I was like,
oh, sweet water.
Like I'm gonna make my rep happy
'cause I just like paid full price.
And got on and I was like, okay, that was 1000% worth it.
It was expensive but holy shit.
Like that's a life.
- What was it?
- It was like 2,500 bucks.
- Yeah.
And I got it on sale for a little bit than after tax.
It's like kind of the same.
So I sold my sound devices, mixed pre-six.
I sold my ADAD expander to Luke.
I sold a couple modules like my squid samples gone now too.
And those pretty much got close enough
to covering it within 500 bucks.
- Nice.
- So I do kind of miss those,
even though the squid like to touch on it quickly,
it's like, I don't do much with sampling anymore.
And I've realized that's kind of gone for me.
I'll use the Octatrack or like even the ER 301,
I might sell that 'cause I just like,
I have another project I might use it for,
which is a separate thing.
But I do, I will miss the sound devices mixed pre,
even though I don't do field recordings.
It's like so good to like do Instagram videos
that sound perfect.
And it was just nice, but I didn't need that thing.
I don't need to use six track recording remotely.
I would probably just get that Zoom H6
if I wanted something else again.
It's more than good enough.
- That reminds me not to deviate,
but like the seasonal affective disorder
has been like rocking my ass the last few weeks.
And I was trying to think of like how to break out of that.
And one way I used to do that was like road trips,
you know what I mean?
But like I'm trying not to spend money
or anything too much right now.
And I was trying to think of like what would be a good,
you know, what would inspire a nice road trip
and not cost a lot of money.
And then I was like, oh yeah,
I haven't done field recording in a hot minute.
I was like gonna ask you guys
if the weather is permitting anytime in the next few weeks,
should anyone want to go to like a couple spots
and do some like field recordings?
- Is there any chance that I was gonna say no to that?
You're like, of course.
- Yeah, cool.
Yeah, I'd be very much into it.
- Yeah, I'm 100% into that.
That sounds awesome.
- I would, the album that I'm working on,
there's been multiple times where I'm like,
"Hmm, I really like some like field recorded ambience
in the background here."
And I was like, "I don't have any fresh recordings
and I want to dig through my old shit.
Like I want to do something fresh."
And I was like, "Yeah, should probably get my ass
to a couple of abandoned places soon
or a couple of factories and start recording some sounds."
- Awesome idea.
- Yeah.
- That was the end.
I'll even mention that's enough of a review,
but the modular one was Deckard's voice,
which I still haven't given a proper review of yet,
but it's like similar level of like,
"Ooh, this is what it's like when somebody designs something
really fucking well."
And it's just like--
- You're hitting some high-end stuff.
- Yeah, both of those were really worth it.
- Yeah.
- Both pricey.
- No, very little actually.
Yeah, even though the Obi-6 is good at mono stuff,
it's like surprisingly good at just like non.
First I was like, "This is gonna be great for chords."
And then I realized like, "God damn, it's a bass monster."
- Really?
- Absolutely, destructive bass.
Not just more like John Carpenter analog,
like that really just fucking deep analog bass sound.
It like owns that sound.
- Nice.
So it does sound like you're gonna have some things
to talk about in the future.
- Both of those I need to put a little more time in.
And all I've been doing for the past couple of weeks
is five times I'll just sit down and play the over hunt.
It's one of those where I can very kind of rare for me
to be able to just sit down and like just enjoy playing
a synth by itself.
And it's one of those.
You can just kind of get lost patching it for a minute.
- Nice.
- That's awesome.
- Yeah, both of those rule.
I couldn't recommend either of those more.
I know they're pricey, but those are two things where it's
like, okay, it works for a ton.
- It's the dollar on it.
- Yeah.
Like that in a virus and an analog rhythm,
see, I could work forever with those three
and not give a fuck really.
- I've been going like the total opposite route.
I've been trying to like use filters as oscillators.
I'm tuning my feet back and see it as a sound sort of.
- Trying to like keep it super simple
and like just very essential for sound sources right now.
But I do miss playing with like, you know,
like you talking about that, the end of the virus
and stuff like that.
I was like, man, I do miss playing on my virus.
- You know, it's great.
- I mean, just get lost in that world for a bit.
- That live set rejuvenated that for me pretty well.
No, I'm like very into the virus again.
- Yeah, that and the OB6 combo in each other perfectly
in a mix, it can kind of freak me out how good
they sound together.
- Well, speaking of filters,
one of the categories was best filter.
- Yeah, I wrote down for that same one or effect.
- Okay.
- Didn't have to limit it to the filter,
but like processor.
- It's on three plats again, is it?
- No.
- All right.
- I'm sorry. - I already know
what mine's picked.
- We do.
- So I'll start, 'cause I don't actually know
anyone knows what mine's gonna be.
For me, 2022, filter of crows.
- Yeah, okay.
- So I got it and I think I was pretty positive
in my initial review of this year.
- You almost convinced me to get one.
- Oh, really?
- But I haven't pulled the trigger yet.
- We were all close.
- It can do everything.
It can be a nice, simple basic filter.
It can be just used as a preamp,
just the crow part of it.
- Mm.
- The mixture of modes is fantastic.
Turning off the resident's stability
is a completely separate noise source now.
Like it just does absolutely bonk her stuff
and all in the cutoff and residents being CVable,
just sequencing the chaos of that.
It's just like the separate other bonus device you get.
So yeah, I got a grit a couple months ago
after we talked about it and I love it,
but A, that's from 2021 and B,
I love it, but filter of crows.
Like if I, you know, gun to my head,
I probably would pick filter of crows.
I'm gonna keep them both, I'm gonna do great.
- Our guidelines are loose as usual.
- Yeah.
- We don't have to be made in 2022,
just something that you got to discovered in 2020.
- I mean, my runner up would be grit.
But again, if I could only pick one,
yeah, filter of crows, they absolutely fucking nailed it.
- Did you mention who that's by?
- Oh, I did not mention who that's by.
It's by Pittsburgh modular.
- You know. - You can see this.
So yeah, that's my one and two
for best filter of the year.
- Mm-hmm, correct.
- Take a guess what my first is.
- Grit.
- I'm thinking it's grit.
You're correct.
- Right.
- Oh, so that's why you were very keen on making sure
that we established the rules that it didn't have to be
in 2021, 'cause you were about to violate it within minutes.
- Grit has been a fucking game changer for me.
- Yeah, it's like the filter that I've always wanted
to exist in your Iraq.
And things have come close, like stacking plague bearers
and things like that.
Grit just fucking nails the type of saturation
that I like to get out of my filters.
I love the sound of the resonance.
I love the limiter on the input that I can slam or ease back.
The only thing that it lacks that I wish it had
was band pass mode.
- Oh, yeah. - But I'll survive.
But yeah, I love Grit.
I'm considering getting a second one.
It's amazing.
And I hope that British noise electronics doesn't go under.
- Oh, yeah.
- Like we talked about last time,
yeah, their website is still down.
Still no news about the future of the company.
Haven't seen any restocks.
- They've trickled some out,
'cause you can get more at where we got it from now.
- They have like eight again.
- Yeah, that's, I did notice there was a couple up for sale.
That's the only module I've seen up for sale.
Everything else seems to be sold out everywhere.
And the bright scowging is fucking insane on reverb.
- It's unreal.
- But that's my first pick.
Second pick, Chase Bliss Generation Loss Mark II Petal.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- Loving it.
I absolutely loving it.
- I think a few people have either purchased that petal
or want to because of your review.
- I'm glad.
I think it deserves the attention, you know?
Like I really enjoyed the last iteration of it.
And this one I feel like they really knocked out of the park.
I've seen recently some people complaining about latency on it.
They just released two updates.
One is a firmware update that can help reduce that latency.
They said, if you feel like it's an issue,
it does slightly alter the sound of it.
It gives it more of a flange effect on tight settings
as opposed to like a corsy effect.
Me personally, I like the course sound.
- Sure, yeah.
- So I haven't updated.
And then I also released a hardware update
that requires some soldering.
- Really?
- Which, yeah.
And they offer it free and they said like,
if you want to send them the petal,
they'll do it for you type of thing
'cause they don't want people breaking their petals.
But it's supposed to help with the base response
come through at like no high pass whatsoever.
By default, there's a bit of a high pass that goes on with it.
Me personally, I don't mind it.
Like I don't expect everything to go through gracefully
when I send sound into that petal.
You know what I mean?
Especially base.
In fact, I kind of like the fact
that it'll thin things out at times.
I don't need a high base response with it.
So I'm probably not gonna bother with the update.
But yeah, loving it still.
I think they smashed it.
I'm curious to see what else they developed
that will be in stereo and have CV capability
like this one does.
- Well, big shock, my number one pick for the year.
British Noise Electronics Grid.
- Hell yeah.
- Thank you very much again for looking at me
and being like, you should get that filter
because I did.
And yeah, it's one of the best filters ever,
incredibly unique sound, lots of stuff that,
like you said, have been kind of wanting out of a filter
but kind of struggling together,
having to do a lot of work arounds and sounds.
It's the shit.
Build quality is excellent.
I've been loving it for a variety of things.
It just sounds good.
- Sounds, yeah, it sounds good.
And it sounds like it's just not holding back.
- Yeah.
- You know what I mean?
Like some filters, you can just tell,
they're pushing your audio in a very specific way.
This is just kind of like,
it's like a tiny sandbox of potential, you know what I mean?
Like if you want clean and squelchy, you can do that.
If you want it fucking shredded and like, you know,
saturated and the resonance just breaking apart,
you know, at the seams, yeah, you can do that too.
It's like, I like that.
I've noticed even like the CV ranges on the inputs
are like massive.
Like they go beyond normal range.
- Yeah.
- It's like kind of cool.
- I like that.
- My second pick kind of runner up would be
the surge variable bandwidth filter,
which is a weird one.
You can't even get a DIY version of it.
Most of my random source surge stuff I've built.
It doesn't even have resonance.
It just has, you know, that variable bandwidth control,
which gets to be very resonant like sounds.
It kind of like squeezes the sound
in this really interesting way.
I didn't even really know about that filter topology.
I saw that originally.
I was like, no resonance.
I don't give a shit because it's a filter
and I want resonance.
Well, I was at the No Way Back party in May
and seeing outer space play live, my friend John
and his friend.
And the last track was just making these sounds
that were like almost these like phaser sounds.
And it was like, it was blowing my mind at the time.
And I even talked to John a little after the set.
I'm like, what was that last track?
He was like, oh, this is just like,
we're processing a bunch of the shit
with like the banana version of like a surge variable band
with the filter.
He's like, that's the coolest fucking filter in the world.
And I was like, whoa, okay.
Like that's your opinion carries a little weight.
Like I'm going to check that.
I think I ordered it like the next day or something.
I was like, oh, I want to fucking try this.
And it made me realize I think, you know,
emu samplers and like drum and bass
and how they were used for that.
Like one of the things that they had
was like the variable band with EQ.
And I think a lot of those similar
because I noticed myself getting sounds like,
oh, that sounds like the tech step sound
I could never quite like make as easily as I could
or I had to use like multiple filters
to write a variable band with filter basically.
And that was another eye opener.
It's not something I use all the time,
but there's a really cool thing it can do.
And I like kind of exploring that flavor.
Very unique, not many things can do it.
That satanics macro pod can do it too.
And it has resonance, but I find the surge
to be a little cleaner, a little more surgical.
And for that, I kind of like that effect.
Yeah, a good solid runner up to the grit,
but the grit definitely favorite one from the year.
Nice.
Very nice.
All right, well, one of the other ones was firmware update
of the year.
Mine's Plats.
Yeah, I was gonna say it's easy.
Yeah, I mean, we've talked, we've already talked about it.
I didn't know if anyone had orange mode all day.
All fucking day.
I guess this is an opportunity for anyone to see
a second place if they had one.
I love to, I will say about the Plats orange mode.
You can't update their engine brains with the new firmware.
There's a hardware difference that prevents that
from happening and I just fucking love them.
Because if you bought that module,
you're kind of a fucking moron, I'm sorry.
Especially when you can get a clone of the actual plats.
Too many better options on to your clones.
For a little display, you don't need it all.
So, disappointments.
Disappointments of flaps.
Disappointments slash flop.
I'll start again.
Yeah, yeah.
So I have something for this category,
but I feel like disappointment isn't actually
the right word for me.
Because I went in--
Under disgust.
No, no, that's a separate category altogether.
And that I reserved for myself.
This was like, I'm interested in this
and I hope it's better than I think it's gonna be.
And it turned out to basically be as bland
as I thought it was gonna be.
So it's disappointment in the sense that I got rid of it.
I didn't like it.
And it was a very hyped piece of kit.
For me, nautilus.
I don't get it.
I think it's a flop.
I think it's boring.
I covered it in detail and I even kept it for a little bit
while after that was like, you know,
let me just double type before I get rid of this.
Honestly, it's kind of just over a price garbage.
I don't like it.
If this is your bag, if this is what you're into,
I hope you're not offended.
But it is like not even remotely for me.
So that nautilus is the not quite disappointment
'cause I didn't have high hopes.
But even the modicum of hope I had was dashed.
Yeah.
I may not be 100% on board with where Cuba's at.
I kind of lean.
Lean that way too.
I like the Aurora.
I have the Accord V2.
The Accord V2 I could probably do without.
The Aurora is still cool.
I'm still like that.
- So, Greg, what is your disappointment slash flop?
- Paulian play.
- Oh, good one.
- Yeah.
- I bought into the marketing hype.
And I shouldn't have.
I knew better.
I should have trusted my gut.
And you gave it a decent amount of time.
- I did.
I gave it a fair shake.
'Cause I mean, there's potential there.
You know, I don't want to call it a complete flop.
But yeah, it did not do what I wanted a machine to do really.
It's too dumb down, too restrictive.
You know, the whole like being limited to 16 steps
and the whole, I mean, the whole thing
that they're really pushing for it,
at least all the influencers and such
proportion about it was like it's generative functions.
But like really, you're just juggling presets.
Like it's not really doing much
that I would call generative.
You know, and you're working within the confines
of what they deem to be a kick or a snare
or a hat pattern.
And you know, I don't know, I just found it
kind of more limiting and restrictive than liberating.
You know, I found the Paulian tracker
to be more inviting for generative stuff personally.
I could see that.
And it feels like they, it's almost like they neutered it
intentionally so that there wasn't much spillover
between like the play and the tracker.
Yeah.
Which is unfortunate because this thing had the potential
to be like tracker 2.0.
Right.
And just have like a nicer, you know,
interface to the tracker and new features and things.
But no, they, they want a different route.
They kept a two separate project or two separate products,
you know, and neither are really cheap at this point.
The price of the tracker has gone up over the last couple
of years.
The play retails for like 900 if I recall.
Oh wow.
So yeah, 900 bucks for a 16 step preset machine
was just not what I was looking for.
And I still have my tracker.
I still use it.
I wouldn't say it's my go to.
I still use Deluge and Alex are way more than that.
But for when I go and need that,
I need to track or nailed it.
So I think, I think they know how to make a good product.
Yeah.
I think they're like electron where they it's like,
you guys need to get out of your own fucking way
and stop trying to worry about like having these products
that are discreet and don't overlap with each other
and just make the best thing you fucking can.
Yeah.
That and no stereo sampling, you know.
It's so weird.
Well, I mean, there's no sampling on it at all.
It's you can't sample into it or record.
But like the samples that you do load into it,
same as the tracker, it has to be mono.
It's restricted with the size and the track length and all that.
And it's like, yeah, I don't know.
And someone with a tracker, if they made the play
what you describe, this tracker 2.0 and all these people,
I wouldn't be mad.
I wouldn't be like, oh fuck, fuck this tracker.
You know, like it still is the, you know, it's--
The tracker is a modern classic.
Yeah.
I think there will ever be a following around that product.
And if they come up with a new version,
there's still going to be people that are probably
very religious about 1.0.
Right.
I would not have been mad if there was a 2.0, a new version,
and it had all this other stuff.
I'd be like, I still like, I'm still
getting a ton of shit out of the tracker.
There's just now two options.
Yeah.
So I don't think-- I think the idea
that people are going to get mad,
because there have been an update,
and it had too much overlap.
I think that's a faulty premise.
So much wasted potential.
Yeah.
Great.
If they would have just done a few slight changes,
I would still have a place sitting on my desk for sure.
Right.
But, you know, who knows?
Maybe someday with tracker 2.0,
we'll get what I want out of price.
Right.
Like that.
And for me, it would be the Oxyone sequencer, actually.
I thought about this for a while.
The Erica Black sequencer was another fail for me,
but that was one I kind of like--
It's an older one.
The Oxyone was one that I had a lot of hope for.
And I know that there are people that love it.
It's not like it's some fundamentally flawed thing,
but I think the way that it doesn't really have screens.
And, you know, getting the Hapax--
like, I'm a squar bitch for the most part.
I think the way that they have their stuff simple,
and the way that they manage screens,
and everything like the Hapax is just--
I can't imagine using another sequencer
for the type of melodic stuff that it does.
It's just such a joy to use live.
And so easy.
And I thought with the Oxyone, it was always just kind of a--
not a great user interface.
It's hard for me to navigate, hard to know what I needed to do,
way too many hot keys to save and shit like that.
And it's like, oh, you could have just made
a bigger device kind of, and had more options in my mind.
But I think it's great that they did it,
and they keep updating it.
They've made all these updates.
But I don't miss that.
Any capacity, I think the squar up
is far superior for my needs.
Nice.
We were too harsh.
I mean, as far as the category about disappointments,
I feel-- I mean, I guess I did call something garbage.
But outside of that, I think that wasn't too harsh.
Yeah.
I'm more or less disappointed in myself, too,
when it comes to the play for falling into that marketing
hype, you know?
Like, dude, influencers are pushing that so fucking hard.
So wait, before we get into this,
isn't there a category related to this?
There is.
I guess we want to segue.
Do we want to segue?
Yeah, we want to segue.
Yeah, let's do it.
The category-- well, as suggested by some of our patrons,
they wanted to hear what we considered the hackiest hack
of the year when it comes to influencers and reviewers
and also worst influencer trend of 2022.
So we could probably tie those together.
But yeah, I don't want to name, drop anyone
that I consider to be the hackiest hack.
But describe them to the point where it can only be one person
and we know what you're talking about.
That's the thing.
I don't have one name in mind.
Like, we were talking about this just the other day,
the three of us, offline or whatever.
And it seemed like 2022, especially over the last few months,
has been a horrible fucking year for people
shilling for products and companies.
And I can't even really blame them.
Obviously, the market's crazy right now.
Things are hard to get.
Things are expensive.
People aren't spending as much.
So companies are throwing products at reviewers
and influencers with obvious some pretty high stipulations
that they need to get the fucking hype train rolling.
But with buyers having fewer choices
and basically only getting a couple of things,
they're trying to make sure that their product is the one
that they're buying.
Which is not that different than any other year
in the history of capitalism, but it does seem like it's
a little bit more pointed now.
It seemed very excessive there.
Especially when you're subscribed to multiple people on YouTube
and you realize they all released a video on the same product
at the same minute and they're all saying the same fucking shit
like it's a script.
It's like, OK.
And yeah, the Paul Ian play was a big one for that.
I can't even recall a product that I've seen get pushed
so hard by so many different influencers and reviewers
at the same time.
Very coordinated effort.
Now, I'll give some props to Red Means recording Jeremy Blake
for kind of like, I think, finally piercing through the veil
of some of that nonsense because he said the same thing.
He's like, oh, someone's going to send me a half-baked product
that doesn't do half of the things it said
so we can all release this video at the same time.
But we can't really be critical of it
because we're worried about not getting future support from them.
And I'm like, damn, that's not a great system
that's going on right now.
That's the thing too.
Yeah, because things are hard to get inexpensive,
like, clearly, these people don't want to lose their hookup
from getting free or discounted gear.
So they're just going to say good stuff, you know?
Or at the very least, underplay the faults
that they uncover with this stuff.
And there are people that are just getting into all of this
that don't necessarily know that's a system that
is driving some of these videos that they're seeing.
Some 15-year-old who's getting into this and being like,
I'm really excited because that guy that I liked
is really excited about it.
I was like, oh, well, there's excitement.
It's not genuine.
That's the thing.
I fell for that this year.
Like, when I said 15-year-old, I mean, we don't like hype.
Like, usually I have a pretty good eye
to see through the bullshit, you know what I mean?
Like, we've been in this for a while, you know?
But I was able to ignore most of the hype
with the polyanplay.
However, Ben Jordan putting out two massive videos,
super polished, you know what I mean?
Like all that, like all focused on the play.
And like him, the way he sold it, I believed him.
You know what I mean?
For a while, like he was hyping it up as, you know,
IDM in a box and all this shit.
And I'm like, okay, that sounds cool, you know?
But yeah, it's not.
- And especially coming from him, I mean,
he was a successful talented IDM artist.
- Sure, I respect Ben's opinion.
- Sure, yeah.
- And so I was kind of like a little sad that like,
you know, I bought into what he was saying
because I respect him and I like him as, you know,
a person and an artist.
But yeah, clearly, you know,
he's always kind of chilled for polyan stuff.
This wasn't gonna be any different.
You know, I mean, like this was a carefully marketed,
you know, production that he did
across the span of two videos, you know?
I kind of bought into it, but, you know,
and maybe for some people it is IDM in a box, I guess.
Maybe his words, you know, aren't,
I'm not saying he lied, I'm just saying like,
I heard what I wanted to hear, you know,
out of what he was saying.
And I didn't give it enough judgment
before dropping $900 on a machine that was kind of,
you know, a flop for me.
- Yeah, I think you said it well.
And somebody else mentioned it in the same term
as it's kind of like a paint by numbers box, you know,
for this perspective.
And it's like, once I heard that,
I was like, oh, that really kind of hit.
I'm like, I see what they did there.
I don't know if it's what I would ever want,
but they got close, but not quite.
- Yeah, overall, it's just like the,
the shilling right now is kind of insane.
We can't even pinpoint one person.
I don't think I would anyways, you know what I mean?
I don't want to call people out.
Like, I think people, most people,
especially our listeners are smart enough to see
who's shilling, who's being a hackiest hack, you know what I mean?
- They don't need us the name drop,
but it's just bad overall right now.
There's very few sources that I will bother to watch anymore
'cause like this year has made me numb
to the amount of shilling and half-assed reviews.
- I mean, I still put it out there, Ben Divkid.
I do take what they present with,
it holds a lot more water 'cause I don't feel like
I'm being sold or prodded.
I feel like I'm just watching someone who's very enthusiastic
and knows what they're doing,
put something through its paces.
I don't know, I wouldn't say that's end of list,
but the list isn't much longer than that.
- I was just gonna say the same.
Like I think I'll typically watch like Ben Jordan's stuff
just to see what he's talking about.
And I'll watch Divkid's technical overviews of things.
I don't really watch Divkid's videos to sell me on a product.
I'll usually watch videos with stuff that I'm already
interested in that he's doing, I'm like cool,
I'm gonna get a technical overview.
He's gonna paint a wide brush showing
many ways this product can be used.
- It's putting into its paces and it is a little bit more
like letting the device that he's reviewing do the talking.
- Yeah, so I guess it's more productive for us to say
who we think is not the hackiest of all.
(laughing)
- Another one I put out and this is a little bit weird
because it's not directly synthesizer
and it's Emily Harpist.
- Mm-hmm.
- They do a lot of pedal reviews.
And the reason I really was sort of glummed onto it,
A, I just like the way harp sound
and B, they're very like, they're a charming personality,
but also they're not just playing smoke on the water
through a guitar pedal and telling me how
oaky the timber is.
- Yeah.
- Like finding anything for pedals that isn't just someone
running a fancy guitar through it and playing the same
three classic rock songs was very tedious
and just someone doing something different,
like running a harp through a pedal,
it turns out is wildly more informative
than hearing a guitar go through it.
- I always will go to, you know,
loop ups and skip to the pros and cons
and just see what feedback he has
but other than that, I don't even have
- He's specific attention to anybody.
- Even them, I feel like he's been going a little soft
on certain things or he'll get stuff
and just point out like, you know,
this firmware might, is a beta firmware or whatever,
so like these options might not be in there.
It's like, okay, but a lot of times it seems like
those features never come anyway.
- Right, right.
- You know what I mean?
Like, I don't know, I like Lupop,
but yeah, I don't know, I feel like he's kind of,
at least these days this year,
not so much reviewing stuff that he cares about,
but just reviewing whatever the hell
free shit's getting sent his way, you know what I mean?
And so like, you gotta take that with a grain of salt.
And I feel like that right there might answer
the worst influence we're trying of 2022.
It seems like standards have fucking dropped this year.
Pretty high, or pretty low, I should say.
And people are just, you know,
doing whatever to get free stuff.
Or, yeah, or afraid to fuck up the flow of free stuff.
Which is kind of, well then you offer
like very little utility to scare you.
- Scared to get fired by Electron or something.
- Yeah.
(laughing)
- For instance, yeah.
I mean, at that point, if everyone's just
towing the company line, you just need one person to do it.
They put out the video that everyone's going to make,
and the script they're gonna read,
we don't need five, 10, 15 influencers
doing the exact same thing.
- Right.
- It's like why even bother watching different ones
if they're all going to be doing the same thing,
with the same gear, reading the same more or less script.
You know, and not really putting things through its pace
has just been like, you know, everything, all year.
It was just like, oh wow, this is the greatest thing ever.
Like, 10 reasons why you need this in your setup.
And like, you know what I mean, shit like that.
It's just like, everything that came out
was like the next thing that you needed to get.
And it's just like, really?
I don't know about that.
And with no more information than what's on the product page.
- Right.
- Which is, I think funny, 'cause it kind of results
in some like a blowback towards us
because I'll hear people be like, oh, you guys trash stuff.
I don't think so, you know?
I think we are trying to be honest about the things
that we come across.
Like we-- - Like form opinions,
and sometimes it's not the best opinion of how to say it.
- Well, I mean, when you look at a landscape
where everyone is just so saccharin and positive,
and everything's the greatest thing ever,
for somebody to even deviate from that,
even a little by going, oh, it wasn't that great.
It sounds like trashing.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, the poly and play marketing barrage
is what kind of brought that to my attention.
And then I kind of like didn't think too much of it
until the Perkins started making its rounds.
- Yeah, yeah.
- And like, holy fuck, I think everyone who even like,
can even be slightly qualified as an influencer
did what they could to get a free fucking Perkins.
(laughing)
- Because so many videos like all at once
after like radio silence for months,
and all that spam, everyone had all these fucking Perkins
videos and everyone's talking about how it's the best thing
ever, and it's like, I'm interested in it.
- Yeah, yeah.
- I would like a Perkins, but it's a $2,000 fucking drum machine
with only four voices, you know?
So like, I wanna see people that are actually putting it
through its paces and speaking about its weaknesses.
And you know, I had to do a lot of research to pull up
what I consider weaknesses to be,
because no one else was talking about it.
You know, and I'm like, I watched like every video.
And I'm like, that information just really wasn't
brought to the surface or focused on much.
You know, everyone just wants to focus on, you know,
the bells and whistles.
- Right, right.
- And tell you why you need to spend $2,000 on a drum machine.
- Yeah. - It's like, mm.
- So yeah, I think that's the worst trend of 2022.
- No, I agree. - I agree.
- We've seen a lowering of standards is what I would say.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- We need real journalists like us out there in the streets.
- So like, - For you the real news.
- If everybody kind of like stepped up their level
of just like fair criticism, what are they gonna,
or people gonna stop giving free gear out to everybody?
- If the one person who doesn't do that though,
is gonna be that one influencer, then doesn't start getting it.
No one wants to be the person left out.
- Yeah. - It just takes,
basically if everyone agreed on mass,
we're gonna be more critical and everyone moved up.
Nothing changes, but if that one person doesn't,
and it's just gonna chill, it's almost like a union vote.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- Yeah, like if we all vote union,
we're gonna be very more powerful,
or collective bargaining is gonna increase.
- But just a ball of modular shills.
(laughing)
- All right, so I guess there's more categories.
Oh, there was one I know that was best user interface,
or best or worse interface.
- Yeah, where's, I'll start.
Feel free, 'cause I've got a controversial hot take on this.
- Oh. - Oh.
- I don't have an answer to this.
This is another Patreon suggestion, I think.
I was talking to my partner before this,
I was like, oh fuck, I don't know the answer to this.
And we started talking about just,
not just synthesizer interfaces,
but minor interaction with technology interfaces in general.
We came to the conclusion that I'm malleable,
and kind of a pushover,
and I will trudge through any shitty interface.
And so like, the reason I can't pick one is,
'cause I'm like, well, that's probably not that good,
but I figured out how to use it anyway,
and I'm fine with it.
So that was a long way for me to say,
I'm going to abstain from this one,
because everything's fine.
- That's fine.
(laughing)
I was actually going to say something similar,
but I am far, far from someone that trudges
through interfaces.
- Same here.
- Like, yeah, I don't like menu diving at all,
you know what I mean?
I suffer from option paralysis quite easily.
Like, I like to keep things simple.
And I was going to say something along similar lines there,
like where I don't have one to pick for that category.
Like, for once, I think in the last decade,
maybe more, I did a good job of not buying anything
that I hated the interface with.
I kind of did a great job,
and I'm going to pat myself on the back for like,
you know, buying things that I could tell
I would probably jive with interface-wise.
- It's a good idea.
- Yeah, like, you know, I didn't get anything
complicated this year, like, sequencers or anything
that had like a deep menu system.
Like, I just kind of knew I wasn't in that vibe,
and I just kind of avoided it,
and it's worked out good.
(laughing)
Now, I realize you've pattered yourself on the back,
and we were about to deviate and go straight to Nick,
but I do want to stop and say,
was there anything that you were researching
over the last year where you were like,
oh shit, I want that,
but you opted out of getting it,
because you realized the interface
was going to give you fits.
- That's a good question.
Off the top of my head.
- What do we want to go to Nick?
What do you think about this?
- Yeah, yeah, Nick, I'll think about that one for a second.
- It's funny, 'cause mine's similar to Greg,
I'm like more like gonna reject things.
I'm looking at my sold items in reverb right now.
- I didn't realize that.
- I realized that most of them are like,
I could go through like, I/O Labs Flux, great idea,
absolute least favorite interface
I think I've run into in a while.
Oxy One, similar, Roland MC707,
terrible interface for the most part.
It's a kind of a list of things
that I'd got sick of putting up with.
TR09, terrible interface.
Yeah, very similar.
I don't have the ability to put up
with a lot of stuff like that that I just don't like.
Scott's Kermit Mark III hated it.
It just way too many hidden things.
And the more I have in the past year
made my modular simpler and gotten like,
squid sample good interface,
but another thing of like complexity
and something I could get lost making a drum kit.
The more I like flatten things out,
the much happier I am with my modular
and getting like complex interfaces
that are hard to remember or things with like lots of modes.
Getting those out helps a lot.
I'm getting better with mutable stages now,
but I don't use like,
there's still a lot of modiness to it
and like things it can do that for me is like,
not what I want to do all the time.
Whereas I think mutable tides is like the opposite,
very simple to know like where you're at,
configure it and things like that.
Bead's also a little more complicated and like kind of,
you gotta remember some things
that can be a little annoying.
But if I'm correct me if I'm wrong,
but at the beginning of the episode,
you said you got a second ornament in crime.
So how are you driving with that?
'Cause that is multi-modal.
- Great question.
I think I still, I picked that up,
still remembered how to use it,
thought it was easy to navigate around,
even remembered some of the hot keys to like save state
or to get back to things.
So ornament and crime for the most part so far,
pretty straightforward,
especially since I'm like,
oh, I'm gonna leave this in quanamene pretty much 99%
of the time, it's just a quantizer for me
that I didn't have.
- Gotcha.
So Greg, back to you.
You look at your chewing on this.
- I'm trying to think, I can't think of anything
that like I really wanted but opted not to buy
because of the interface.
I think I've gotten,
I think it's just kind of like a reflex now.
- Right, right.
- Where like if I look at something
and I see a bunch of fucking menus and key,
you know, menu diving and key combos
and so I just automatically write it off as not for me.
- Yeah, right.
- Because yeah, it just,
I just don't have that type of attention span right now.
Like especially when I'm like halfway through an album,
like I am kind of like currently.
- Yeah.
- You know, trying to introduce something like that
while you're in the middle is just so--
- Oh yeah.
- You can just fuck up your flow.
- You can fuck up your head.
- You know these, it's just like, yeah, right now,
I've just been doing a good job of avoiding
things with shitty interfaces,
just things that appeal to me with, you know,
like knob per function.
- Right, right.
- Things like that, you know, no menu
or very little menu diving involves
like that has been my go to throughout the year
and I think I'm gonna be sticking with it for now.
- Yeah. - No, it's awesome.
- Yeah.
- All right, so what other categories did,
I've wrote my stuff on a piece of paper
but I know that there was a far more technical presentation
of this list.
- You're the 2022 major regret selling the most.
- Oh yeah, that was interesting.
- So you had nothing in that category.
I couldn't really think of anything
that I regretted getting rid of.
- Nothing that you got back?
- Oh yeah, I guess I did get like count the octatrack,
I got that back ornament and crime.
- Yeah, I was gonna say Zadar for me.
Like at the start of 2022,
I kind of decided I wasn't into Zadar as much anymore
and I kind of didn't like the interface and I sold it.
And then like as time progressed,
I found myself missing it more and more
and I got it back just a couple weeks ago
and I'm like in love with it all over again.
I'm like, why did I ever sell this?
I don't know what, like yeah,
I'm really digging on it.
So yeah, I don't know if anything else
would fall into that category.
I don't think so.
I think probably just Zadar.
- Yeah, I think- - I was gonna say
I got another dark matter, Bastol,
'cause it was a good sale on it too
and I kind of missed it.
So that's another one that I got back
and I only sold that like within the year.
- I didn't even know you sold it.
- Yeah, I was one of those ones where I'm like,
I don't use this, I need room.
- Yeah.
- And I kind of get over my trying to fit everything in.
So I'll just swap stuff out now.
- Yeah, I do have more.
I'm gonna tell them my thing and I just bought back
like multiple WMD stuff.
- Oh yeah, yeah.
- That I did sell.
- I was saying.
- Well, I guess I sold most of that last year?
- Yeah. - Yeah.
And now mainly because of the sale.
Because I was missing some of this stuff over the year.
Just I guess two months ago or something like that,
I got back two trash masters, two muscle compressors.
And I'm loving them to death
and I don't know why the fuck I ever sold them.
- Right. - Yeah.
Just the way 2022 has shaped up
and made me realize that I missed those
and it would probably be very hard to get in the future.
So I might as well get them back now.
- She knew me. - Right, right.
- And hang on to them this time.
Those were at WMD Digital VCA.
I got the 4HP1 which they'd sold out at the store
but then I found like a really cheap one on Reverb.
And that's like,
I shouldn't have sold that in the first place.
It's so useful if you just don't want envelopes to click
for something or if you want based to like not ever pop
or click like that, it's worth it.
- Yeah.
It's funny because like there's multiple examples
of both we've given that like Zadar and Dark Matter
were like even when I wasn't using them,
I was like, I mean, I could get rid of them
but like I know I'm gonna want this back.
Like Dark Matter. - Yeah.
- Even if it's not in every batch.
But when I go and I reach for it,
so fucking glad it's there.
- I just went through this phase like at the beginning
of the year where like if there wasn't something
that was getting a lot of use out of me,
I would rather have had that funds
and that space dedicated to something else
or something new. - We were both in that.
- Yeah.
But like due to like how the market has been shaping
up and things like that, no.
Like yeah, I clearly can't do that as much anymore.
Like I'm just gonna start doing what you do.
Like if I'm not using something all the time,
fine, I can unrack it and set it aside for the moment.
And in a couple months, if I get the hankering
to use it again, there it is.
And I just plug it back in.
- And there is a threshold.
If I'm, if somebody's sitting there in the box
for like a year, all right, I'm not like a hoarder.
I can recognize our time together is done.
- But if it's like, I haven't used you for a couple of weeks,
I gotta slow my role.
- I did something which kind of helped me in that
got like online like 30 anti-static bags.
And I just have two shoe boxes.
And if there's a module that's like out of the mix,
I like pop it in the anesthetic bag,
sit it in the shoe box.
And then like I have a list of it and I'm like,
oh, like a lot of them like, no one,
I don't wanna sell somebody the neutron orgo
and I made like 10 years ago when we both made those
that I don't use 'cause it's like,
not worth much money.
It's got like some issues and there's just a bunch
of stuff like that.
I'm like, oh, maybe I'll use it again one day.
Like there's stuff like that I'm not gonna get rid of.
Like I've sold stuff that I made as a kit
because I knew it was like, I'm like,
oh, this is functioning like pretty much perfectly.
But for the most part, I'll kind of shy away from it.
Especially if there's even like a little issue.
- And also if it's only a kit,
fuck, I don't wanna make this thing again.
- Right.
- Yeah.
- So that was a very complicated answer.
Like we were all, there was no like to fit in it.
- Like to fit in it for a second, yeah.
- Hopes and predictions are going to look to the future now.
- Why do I went through mine, which was the LZX
and what it's gonna do to video stuff?
I mean, hopes, no more ship shortages,
no more companies going out of business,
people can do this for a living, capitalism fails.
And a techno utopia takes over and--
- God damn, Kami.
- Yeah, so that's my hope.
Prediction is the opposite of that.
My prediction is that none of that's gonna come true.
- Yeah.
- So.
Yeah, again, like there's not a whole lot
that has been announced that I'm like really hyped for
and feel like I need.
I'm still keeping a little space in my rack
for industrial music electronics, folkmires and ferno.
But that's not a new hype.
Like I've been hyped on that for years now.
- Yeah.
- Just patiently waiting for Scott to get it right
and hopefully get the components to make it happen.
And he says it's supposed to probably springtime, 2023.
So we'll see.
- Yeah.
- That's on the horizon.
If that's still a legit timeframe.
And what else?
Oh, I hope British noise electronics doesn't go under.
- Yeah.
- Seems like they might be.
I really hope not.
I would love to see what Ansem creates next
or at the very least be able to keep producing
his current lineup, love his stuff.
It's been a game changer for me this year.
So yeah, like, aside from that,
I just feel like there hasn't been many announcements
that I am like gassed up for on the horizon.
It's more like, you know,
I just wanna see the manufacturers that I enjoy not fold.
Right?
You know what I mean?
- The lack of announcements is probably a reflection
of the state of the industry right now.
- Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm kind of similar.
Like I hope all these companies can keep going obviously,
but I will probably not be the one helping out much
in the next year.
And like, I'm always curious to see how that pans out.
I know I've said that before.
Like, oh, I'm not gonna buy much this year.
I think I said that last year.
And I got like way more like,
like shit cycle through than I could have imagined.
- Yeah.
But like you said, I'm not like, I'm super content.
I've said that before too,
but there's nothing like I'm looking forward to.
Like I've kind of really figured out what I'm doing
in some ways, like not sampling and shit,
kind of lower complexity modules.
There are no more cases with room,
like there's no more room
and I don't have much more money to put towards this.
- I'm sort of, and I know I've said this as well
in the past and then promptly violated.
I think I am at capacity for cases, for space.
And even just like the room that I work in,
like if I need to get something, something else is going.
And that's gonna be a hard decision to make,
but I don't see, for lack of a better word,
my studio growing.
I only have so much room in my brain to organize
what I wanna do and how I use it.
I don't want a big, huge, giant room full of shit
and then become overwhelmed.
And I don't think I'm there, but I'm not there.
- That's where I'm at.
The cognitive, being able to deal with it,
reducing some of those complex modules
giving you less guilt, 'cause I feel bad
if I don't use something that's sitting there too.
I feel like, oh, what's wrong with you
that you're not using this thing?
And I'm like, wait, that's the focus
on finishing what you're trying to do
and then figure, worry about the tools later.
And I was just so flipped with that for awhile.
- Yeah.
I am curious to see what IntelliJel's still cooking up.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- What's Cascadia?
- I don't know. - You still never announce.
Maybe it'll never happen, but I was curious.
- Yeah, there hasn't even been a lot of those type of teasers.
IntelliJel's stuff in general has been
all out of stock and not being restocked a lot lately.
And I'm like, they've been really quiet.
And I'm like, fuck, don't be another company
that's about to fold.
- Yeah, for real. - That would be huge.
- Yeah, I mean, WMD is still like fucking me up.
- That's a big thing, right? - Right, right.
I've relied on them for a good while.
Same with Mutable really bumps me out
that they're ceasing all production now.
- Yeah.
- I mean, fuck, I think I still have more mutable stuff
than anything.
Second up would be WMD and then probably IntelliJel.
- I have a secret hope that Emily from Mutable
stops production, but then like starts working
with someone else, like continues to design things
and just has someone else make them.
Or Emily's involvement in doing stuff, I hope continues
even if it isn't with Mutable.
So like, I don't know if that's the case.
I don't know if any kind of inside track.
That's my secret hope again, a hope for this year
is that like the sort of plats out of the blue
firmware, they were obviously working on this.
What are they working on right now?
Some surprise thing in May or late next year
and it isn't mutable, it's something else.
- I hope that's what happens.
- Yeah.
I'll make a bold prediction that I hope isn't necessarily true,
but I bet that Make Noise will go under.
- Really?
- Hope it's not true.
How many maths can one produce before the market saturated?
- Yeah.
Yeah, I feel like--
- Don't want it to happen.
- Right.
- WMD fell though.
- Yeah.
- Wait, has Make Noise been making a lot of videos?
I feel like that's dried up.
I didn't even really put it together,
but for a while they were for a moment.
- They were making a lot of videos.
- Like how to use Strega.
- Yeah, and some of them were like guest stars.
- Yeah.
- And like guest stars showing up
and they were all really well produced and all that.
It occurred to me that just as you said,
I'm like, "Then, while since I've seen one of those."
- Yeah, how many O-coasts can they sell?
Like, I don't know, maybe like, I don't know.
Maybe they're doing just fucking great
and laughing and hearing this if they listen to it.
- Right.
- Hope so, but something, I don't know.
Let's think a few more.
People will kind of be out of the mix.
- Yeah, I will say I've been seeing more manufacturers
popping up in VCV.
- Yeah.
- A lot of new hardware clones,
which I'm totally cool with ALM.
- Yeah, I'm just honest.
- Do you want a few?
Even Dope for Wasp filter is now ported into the VCV.
And I think that's what we discussed last year.
- Yeah, we did.
- We did was that maybe people who have good concepts
and don't want to completely fold,
but don't have the components or the finances
to release a module could adapt to,
software renditions of their ideas.
I'm not saying VCV rack is the end all be all.
There's plenty of options out there to port your code to,
but VCV has been growing steadily over the last year.
I was just getting into VCV too.
Last year during this wrap up episode,
they had just announced 2.0, if I recall.
And 2.0 has grown tremendously over the last year.
A lot of innovation going on within it.
Third party people and just straight up VCV modules.
Like just last week they released two new modules,
a reverb module and a convolution reverb module.
- I saw that.
- And they're nice.
- Oh, cool.
- I like them a lot.
And one thing that I will definitely give props
to VCV designers for is that they,
like I said last time,
they keep the spirit of modular alive with their designs.
Like, they're not like, well, hey, this is software.
So we can load it with 100 fucking options on this panel.
Like they're not doing that.
They're keeping it to the point,
modules are meant to be a more focused approach.
It's like not per function.
There's not much buried underneath it.
- Oh, we have the option for a dropdown.
Let's do dropdown.
- Oh, God.
- You know, like the temptation to do that,
I imagine is very high.
- And some people do on the third party stuff,
but it seems like for the most part, VCV is keeping it real.
And so I'm glad that they've released a bunch of effects
over the last couple of months
that were like, they sound good.
They're not, you know,
it doesn't give me option paralysis.
When I look at the panel,
you know, it's like they're easy to use.
They serve the purpose and I like it a lot.
My hybrid setup has been giving me more productivity
than anything else has in a while.
So.
- Nice.
- Yeah.
- I will say too, it was cool to see the
System 80 Mark II modules were announced a couple of days ago.
- Oh, were they?
- Yeah, yeah.
- I missed it.
- There's a new oscillator, modulator,
and then the 810 are all Mark II,
and they should be out like some time middle of next year.
- Cool.
- So we're glad to see them keep in going.
Again, like Jeff was super helpful when my 810 needed to be fixed.
And now I can say that they also were super solid
and sent me back a prototype of the Mark II of the 810.
And so I have two of them now,
which is amazing having dual oscillators.
The 810 has some good features, like super generous,
super helpful with getting it fixed and everything paid
for like shipping halfway.
All I had to do is pay to get it shipped there.
And they were really transparent like,
hey, like we found the issue.
Yeah, this potentiometer, trim pause broken.
Like we're gonna burn it in for a week.
Did everything they said they would.
- Nice.
- System 80 rules.
Yeah, really, really happy with them.
And the shit sounds like that's,
could have been one of my favorite sound sources for sure,
but it's been my favorite, one of them for a couple of years now.
- Nice.
- Well by Greg's rule where time doesn't fucking matter
'cause it's a flat circle, could have included it.
- That's true.
It is a flat circle.
- Just so we can make our own rules.
- Whenever a filter, whenever it was made,
whenever you got it can be in a best of 2022 list.
- Everything you've done, Dave.
- We'll do again.
(laughing)
- Again and again.
- I feel like you should have cracked a beer
at the end of that.
- Yeah.
(upbeat music)
(beeping)
- Hold on, dang it, Greg.
- I'd chosen my Scrag.
- What?
(laughing)
- It's like nails on chalkboard to me, dude, I can't.
- I did not know that about you, Greg.
- Yeah.
- I don't know about that.
It literally sends a chill at my spine
with people chewing on ice.
- I can just feel it hurting and freezing my teeth
and it just sends this shiver at my spine.
It's weird.
- Oh, it's supposed to hurt your teeth.
- I remember in high school there was this kid
who maintained that you could grow back brain cells
because something happens when you chew on ice
and I'll never forget that.
- Whoa.
- Yeah, yeah.
It's like something in there.
- It's just like, it's like,
fucking narrow on the floor.
- Silicon Valley, Neutropic secret right there.
- Yeah, chewing on ice.
- The real alpha brain.
(laughing)
- Chewin' on some fucking ice.